.\" Copyright (c) 2018 Yon <anaseto@bardinflor.perso.aquilenet.fr>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.Dd September 28, 2025
.Dt SHAMOGU 6
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm shamogu
.Nd coffee-break roguelike game
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl F
.Op Fl l
.Op Fl n
.Op Fl s
.Op Fl t
.Op Fl x
.Op Fl version
.Op Fl r Ar file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Shamogu is a coffee-break roguelike game with a focus on tactical movement and
careful timing of totemic spirit invocation and comestible consumption.
Visibility and noise stealth mechanics also play an important role.
.Pp
“All life in your mountain is being corrupted.
Beasts are losing their minds and becoming aggressive.
These disturbing events started to happen after a dungeon portal suddenly
appeared at the top of the mountain.
As the guardian, you decide to explore that dungeon in order to find and
destroy the source of corruption…
You hope luck will be on your side!”
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl F
Launch game in fullscreen (SDL version only).
.It Fl l
Write game logs to logs file.
.It Fl n
No animations.
.It Fl r Ar file
Watch replay file
.Ar file
instead of launching a normal game.
If
.Ar file
is
.Sq _ ,
the last game replay is used.
The following key bindings are available:
.Cm +
and
.Cm -
for changing speed,
the arrow keys for going to next or previous frame,
.Cm space
and
.Cm p
for pausing/resuming the video,
and
.Cm Q
for exiting the program.
.It Fl s
Use the 16-color simple palette (terminal version only).
.It Fl t
Use the “true color” selenized palette (terminal version only).
.It Fl x
Use xterm 256-color palette (solarized approximation, terminal version only).
.It Fl version
Prints build information.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It Pa "$XDG_DATA_HOME/shamogu/dump.txt"
Last game character and statistics.
.It Pa "$XDG_DATA_HOME/shamogu/config"
Configuration (binary file).
.It Pa "$XDG_DATA_HOME/shamogu/logs.txt"
Game logs.
.It Pa "$XDG_DATA_HOME/shamogu/replay"
Last finished game's replay (binary file).
.It Pa "$XDG_DATA_HOME/shamogu/replay.part"
Current game's replay (binary file).
.It Pa "$XDG_DATA_HOME/shamogu/save"
Last saved game (binary file).
.El
